An interesting theme that continues to pop up in the story of María Luisa Onody is
education. The first mention of school is in the paragraph about her grandmother, who would say
she had a pizarrón (blackboard) in her home. This ties in later when María says that she loved
school, but her mother never encouraged her to go further than elementary school. This is clearly
indicative of the role that women had generally played in rural Mexican life. This theme of
difficulty through education continues throughout her whole life like when she graduates from
Escuela Normal, a stark contrast from what her academic life could have looked like if she
completed her studies in the United States.
Questions: How have cultural ties either inhibited or helped your academic endeavors in the
past?
What, in your opinion, are the biggest changes in attitudes towards women in education recently?
I was surprised by the level of devotion that her father and mother held toward the CCP
movement by sacrificing more than fourteen hours a day for work. I am curious about the extent
that people in China today know about the Cultural Revolution and how it split up many
families. The immense belief in this ideology and fear of ostracization drove Xidan to prove her
worth. I am interested to learn more about Xidan’s rejection of the traditional beliefs on marriage
and if many others of her generation would agree with her. Although she mentions frequently her
obligation to her country and being taught that there is no individualism, her actions and
motivations to prove herself through her business also seem very individualistic. I was
wondering how she reconciles those aspects of her life.
---------------The chapter I read was about Nara and Oktiabrina and their experiences as Armenian refugees.
One thing I found incredibly intriguing was how Nara said that communist families had “red
baptisms” where they would give their children names such as Proletariat or Vladmir to show
their dedication to the Bolshevik Revolution. Oktiabrina’s name means October, the month the
revolution started. Despite the dedication of her family to the Communist Party, her grandfather
was thrown into prison for being an accused Trotskyite and denounced the party after his release
from incarceration. I found this to be a really interesting point throughout the reading because it
shows how people are often enticed into blind devotion to a certain political party or ideology
that does not exist to benefit them. This devotion can be seen today with President Trump as his
supporters demonstrate a strong passion and loyalty to a leader that does not follow through on
his promises for their betterment. Another thing I found shocking was the fact that the Armenian
Genocide is constantly ignored and blatantly unaccepted by the government of Turkey, even after
one and one-half million Armenians were killed. I personally did not know anything about the
Armenian Genocide, or the injustices Armenians faced. I think the American education system
selectively chooses which major historical events students are going to be taught and this leaves
us with a very Westernized viewpoint that shows us the United States through rose-colored
glasses, similar to what Nara said about her experiences in the Soviet Union. While the
conditions in the United States are not nearly as extreme as those in the Soviet Union where Nara
grew up, I think it is important to recognize similarities in our experiences as a way of reflection.

I read Chapter 1 from Susan Philips’ book which was about an Armenian woman telling her
family’s story of living in Armenia. I thought it was really interesting how she started the story
with her grandparents and then worked her way down the family tree. It seemed as though,
across the generations, their quality of life got better. However, despite the increased quality of
life, family members from each generation still experienced discrimination for being Armenian.
It was also heartbreaking to read the section where she outlined her dreams for a prosperous
future in Armenia where they have a strong economy, people are living comfortably, and
Armenians who left the country can return to their home. Having stability is something we often
take for granted living in the U.S. and her description of such simple but perhaps hard to achieve
dreams puts our privilege and luck in perspective. I would be curious to see what Susan Philips
thinks about the future of immigrant women in the U.S.
to Ms. Phillip’s Book: China After reading Philips’ chapter about Xidan, I was very shocked to
learn about the history of China and the cultural revolution through a woman’s perspective.
Compared to the US, where I grew up, I found many differences between the culture and
traditions, and importantly how women were treated. Xidan’s story was very inspiring to hear
because of the hardships she went through. I really enjoyed hearing about her background and
her story to success. I am very impressed that Xidan became a doctor, trained as a plastic
surgeon, and also built a very successful beauty spa in China, despite the disadvantages and
hardships she went through as a child and young woman. Reading about her experiences made
me question the differences between the US and China, specifically the treatment to women. I
was shocked to hear that women in China had to follow so many rules, and were expected to
follow traditions, such as staying home to take of their child, being a housewife, or even not
speaking up for themselves when needed, therefore I was really touched to read that Xidan
rejected all these traditions and was motivated and eager to fight for her beliefs and for what she
wants. Additionally, I thought it was amazing how China is becoming more united, unlike times
in the cultural revolution under Mao Zhedong’s leadership. Although China has been closed to
the rest of the world, China is now considered one of the most powerful countries and they are
proud of their ability to finally be able to live in peace and respect.
The chapter I read was about Nara and Oktiabrina and their experiences as Armenian refugees.
One thing I found incredibly intriguing was how Nara said that communist families had “red
baptisms” where they would give their children names such as Proletariat or Vladmir to show
their dedication to the Bolshevik Revolution. Oktiabrina’s name means October, the month the
revolution started. Despite the dedication of her family to the Communist Party, her grandfather
was thrown into prison for being an accused Trotskyite and denounced the party after his release
from incarceration. I found this to be a really interesting point throughout the reading because it
shows how people are often enticed into blind devotion to a certain political party or ideology
that does not exist to benefit them. This devotion can be seen today with President Trump as his
supporters demonstrate a strong passion and loyalty to a leader that does not follow through on
his promises for their betterment. Another thing I found shocking was the fact that the Armenian
Genocide is constantly ignored and blatantly unaccepted by the government of Turkey, even after
one and one-half million Armenians were killed. I personally did not know anything about the
Armenian Genocide, or the injustices Armenians faced. I think the American education system
selectively chooses which major historical events students are going to be taught and this leaves

us with a very Westernized viewpoint that shows us the United States through rose-colored
glasses, similar to what Nara said about her experiences in the Soviet Union. While the
conditions in the United States are not nearly as extreme as those in the Soviet Union where Nara
grew up, I think it is important to recognize similarities in our experiences as a way of reflection.
I chose to read Chapter 2 on China and I thought the reading had many interesting topics, one
being the drastic changes the country and people of China went through during the mid-to-late
20th century. The part that fascinated me the most was the Cultural Revolution, and how families
were brainwashed into purging their friends, family, and even themselves for the greater good of
the Communist party because of their socioeconomic status, beliefs, or wrongdoings. I also
thought it was interesting how fast Chinese society recovered post-cultural revolution; while
traditional culture and traditions remained, they were able to pursue education, start businesses,
and adopt Western practices of beauty and society (all things that would have categorized them
under the Five Black Categories of the cultural revolution). It’s also important to note the
challenges woman face(d) in an evolving society such as China; they were still expected to
conform to social norms and be the inferior relative to a man, yet they are still expected to
succeed and “have face”. Xidan shamed her parents, worked in the countryside, went to college
and became a doctor, started her own beauty business, went through a hard marriage, and moved
to the United Sates. It’s amazing how one woman can push through so much struggle and
hardship to overcome gender norms and societal barriers to her becoming a scholar and doctor.
Even in the US, Xidan didn’t know the language, the customs, or what to expect and she has still
made a life for herself. Lastly, it’s inspiring to see how far the Chinese people have come from
just 50 years ago; China’s history still haunts members of society but they are now one of the
most economically productive, rapidly growing countries in the world exporting talent in
education, sports, technology, etc. across the globe. While this success story is not representative
of all Chinese people who experienced the Cultural Revolution and the CCP’s current reign, it
does show how your background, experiences, and knowledge can contribute to society, and how
far you can come to achieve your goals and aspirations. .
I read the chapter about Xidan Wang, chapter 2 of Ms. Philip’s book. This story was very
interesting since it kind of related to my family background. The experiences that Xidan had are
nowhere near what my mother experienced but were similar since she had immigrated to
America from China. My mother was pressured to marry at a young age and came from a
background of farming in a rural area in Guangdong, China. Contrary to what Xidan had
experienced, my mother did not receive much education. The highest level of education that she
completed was middle school. Coming to America, she was not able to communicate well with
others since she could not speak English. Even now, her English is still not very good. Reading
Xidan’s story gave insight to the many traditions of Chinese culture that I had known for a long
time existed but have never known of people who had experienced them. Being Chinese, I’ve
learned that the traditions and expectations that were carried on in the past have evolved now,
and we as the newer generation are not required to meet the expectations that were set from the
older generation. Xidan’s story had followed many of the older traditions that were set, passed
down for generations. Now, especially those who are American born Chinese are only held to a
couple of those standards such as, getting married, doing well in school, and having children.

Xidan’s story reminded me much of the experiences of my mother. She had given everything up
in China and moved to America, to give me and my siblings a better chance at life.
I had the opportunity to read the chapter from Ms. Susan Philips’ book discussing Xidan’s
journey to becoming a doctor in China, her experiences with marriage, and her eventual move to
the United States. Reading her story was eye opening in that I was able to learn about her firsthand experience growing up in Communist China and her journey to America. It was interesting
to hear her reflect on the differences between Chinese and American culture. My family is also
from China and my parents also grew up during the Cultural Revolution, much like Xidan.
Although I knew about some of the Chinese traditions she described, some were new to me.
Xidan’s experience with Chinese culture is a much more traditional one than mine. But, there
were many elements of Xidan’s childhood that sounded similar to my parents’ stories of their
experiences growing up during the Cultural Revolution. When Xidan mentioned that coming to
America from China without knowing English is like “living in a prison” (pg. 53), I was
reminded of my mother’s experience. My mother had echoed the same sentiment and felt quite
isolated when first coming to America, as she did not know English.
I read chapter 4 Susan Phillips’ book and I felt a personal connection with this reading.
My mother is a Mexican immigrant from Jalisco, and the stories that Maria told remind me of the
stories that she tells me about her life growing up. My grandmother was also a field worker, but I
never knew enough Spanish to talk about her life with her before she passed. The first thing
about the readings that surprised me was the nonchalant way in which she describes the deaths of
her siblings. The way it is written makes it seem very monotone, which adds to the narrative of
how hard this woman’s life was. The stories about her father going to the US all the time to send
back money remind me of what my grandmother would do for my mother. She would go work in
the fields of central California down to the bay, and she would send back money so that my mom
and my tia could live. Her description of Mexican culture made me pretty sad because it doesn’t
allow for women (or most men for that matter) to chase their professional dreams. Professional
dreams aren’t valued as much as tradition and family though, and that’s something I wish was
more common in the states. When she talks about loving the feeling of independence but yelling
at her kids because they wanted to be more free than she was growing up, I snarled at the irony.

Overall, I think this chapter provides an excellent illustration of a fairly privileged immigrant
journey, the other stories that I’ve heard weren’t nearly as pleasant as the one she described.
Chapter 2: I think it is very interesting to learn about the perspectives of those who lived under
communism given the fact that many of us have grown up in America, a capitalistic country.
Individualism is a very American concept so it is thought-provoking to see how people are so
willing to sacrifice their lives for the collective good, especially when Xidan’s parents worked so
much that they didn’t get to see her or her brother very often. I didn’t know about the red/black/
gray categories that people were divided into and how the Cultural Revolution destroyed
families, as Xidan had to treat her parents badly because of their family background and how she
even considered killing him with a gun. One can’t help but feel that communism has taken their
children. I really admire how Xidan and her mom were so able to become amiable with everyone
around them and to adapt quickly. I especially respect Xidan for instilling confidence in her
patients and for refusing to do procedures because the client’s boyfriend told them to. The
language barrier that Xidan faced when she relocated to the U.S. resonated with me because my
dad told me a lot of stories of what life was like when he immigrated here. He frequently was
misunderstood at restaurants and everywhere else but over the years he has learned to adapt and
now those awkward experiences he had are funny to him. Overall, Xidan’s story was an
emotional rollercoaster and it was a great read.

Caitlin Ree UID: 305505710
Meiyi Ye UID: 505569664
Cherry Li UID: 505943441
Shane Remo UID: 505944563
Ashley Munayco UID: 705565995
Each member, what chapter did you read, what did you learn from this (write your name
next to your comment).
Caitlin Ree:
I read chapter one about an Armenian immigrant named Nara and her mother, Oktiabrina. Nara’s
grandmother lived through the Armenian genocide, Oktiabrina lived through World War II and
Stalin’s regime, and Nara lived first through the Soviet Union’s reign and then through
Armenia’s independence from the Soviet Union. Nara and her husband moved to the United
States after the new Armenian government became too corrupt, and Oktiabrina followed because
she did not want to live in Armenia without Nara. I learned about the hardships that immigrants
face when they leave their beloved homes and the ways that they sometimes regret ever leaving.
Shane Remo:
Ana perspective - They moved because of the civil war. It was not a safe place to live in
El Salvador as there would be dead bodies left outside. Every day they were practically praying
for their life as they constantly lived in fear and nervousness. Ana never regretted her decision of
immigrating to America as it has given her and her family stability.
Juanita perspective - In El Salvador, whenever her parents left the house, she had to pray
that they would come back safe. She felt safe in America. She enjoyed the freedom and
opportunity in the United States. Even though she lives in America, she still has a sentimental
attachment to El Salvador.
I learned about the cruel living conditions that immigrants face and that they move to
America for an opportunity to change their lives for the better.
Meiyi Ye:
I read Chapter 5: immigrant from Vietnam. I learned about the gruesome environment and the
hardships Thuynga and her family endured during the Vietnam War and her treacherous journey
to reach the United States. In South Vietnam, where Thuynga and her family were living at the
time fell to North Vietnam, their lives and everyone else who was living in South Vietnam had
become a nightmare. The new government changed the currency so that all the money Thuynga
and her family had been saving was useless. The government also sent her husband away for a
“reeducation” camp where he had to do forced labor because he worked for the previous regime.
Thuynga and her daughter were also imprisoned because of her husband’s ties to the late
government. Like Thuynga, many women whose husbands had worked for South Vietnam were

thrown into prison and refused work which meant they could not earn money for their families.
Wanting a better life for her children, Thuynga and her husband tried numerous times to escape
from Vietnam, but they all failed. Eventually, they were able to escape by boat and land in
Malaysia, and later, they were able to move to the United States.
Ashley Munayco:
I read the chapter about Maria and Michelle. I learned the unique perspective of immigrants. I
was born and raised in the U.S and never had the experience of being torn between two
countries. Maria first went to the U.S when she was 10 years old. Growing up I lived in a very
hispanic community and many of my friends in middle school and high school had only come to
America a few years ago. I think Maria’s story gave me more perspective on what those kids
(and my friends) had to go through. I also learned that many children of immigrants have similar
stories and it felt nice to relate to Michelle. All of my cousins and in general members of my
family that are around my age still live in Mexico and Peru. Reading Michelle’s story and her
view taught me that the (sometimes) confused feeling of being a part of two different cultures is
normal.
Cherry Li:
I read chapter 2 with the story about Xidan. I found it to be a very emotional story. Having lived
through the Cultural Revolution, Xidan had a difficult childhood. She struggled a lot with
coming to terms with her family background. Because her parents came from wealthy families,
under Mao’s ideologies, they were grouped into the so-called “black” category and forced to
reflect on how they had exploited the poor, even though they never had. Xidan was loyal to Mao,
and as such, she and her brother often joined the Red Guard in humiliating and criticizing their
parents in order to prove that they were revolutionaries. She noted how she stopped calling her
parents “mother” and “father” and instead called them antirevolutionaries. At one point, she even
thought about killing her father herself, which she deeply regretted many years later. After
growing up, Xidan did not have an easy life either. Due to traditional Chinese culture, she was
forced to marry and have her own family, but her husband did not respect her nor her values.
Xidan was someone who strongly valued her career. Even after divorcing and moving to the U.S.
with her second husband, she felt even more prisoned and at a lack of support from her husband.
From Xidan’s story, I learned that not all immigrant stories are about finding freedom and
happiness in their new lives. For Xidan, it was much of the opposite; she lost her career, her
friends, and her language, but in any case, she was not one to give up on her dreams.

Whole group: Did reading the chapter and listening to Ms. Philips change your attitude or
future behavior in any way?
We think that as a whole it did change our attitude. Especially, watching the video and listening
to the discussion in class with Ms. Phillips and the students. We got to hear the stories of
different immigrants and the perspective of our fellow classmates. Hearing the tough stories of
other people coming to America and how even some of our classmates related to their stories
was eye opening. We think it changed our attitude to always remember to be open and that
people come from different walks of life. You never know what you can learn from someone else
if you just listen.

Katelyn Nguyen, Ethan Vuong, Natalie Nguyen, Tian Qiu, Emily Zhang (Group 3)
23F-STATS-112-LEC-1
Profesor Matash Esfandiari
14 October 2023
Reflection about Susan Philips’s Talk
Individual :
Natalie Nguyen:
Mrs. Susan Phillips book and film is bound to have a great impact on who ever reads it. It
made us realize that when many people migrate over, they are giving up a tremendous amount.
Many of the women were very proud of their careers in their motherland (such as teacher and
doctors) but had to give that up when they migrated to America. They faced difficulties with the
language and felt inferior at time, even though in their mother tongue they were experts in their
fields. While many of them had to migrate over to find better lives for themselves and their
families, many miss the lives that they use to have previously.
Katelyn Nguyen:
Through Susan Philips’s talk, I was able to view a new perspective on life in general.
Susan’s interviews shined light on the various hardships these women had to endure to maintain
a normal life. It allowed me to realize the many aspects of life that I take for granted. Another
aspect of her speech allowed me to realize the many sacrifices my parents had to go through in
order to move to the United States. Susan had posed the question “what does being an American
mean to me”. I couldn’t help but think about my parents and all their sacrifices that were made to
give me a better life opportunity whether that was pertaining to school, work, and even related to
the government. The first word that I think of when I think of being an American would be
opportunity. Both of my parents are Vietnamese-Americans and at such a young age they were
forced to leave their family, friends, and life behind. Actually being able to hear from these
women and their experience only reminded me of the many stories my parents used to tell me
about their own experience. In particular, I had read the chapter pertaining to Vietnamese
immigrants. Her life experiences emphasized how she was forced to deal with the many
stereotypes that Vietnamese immigrants had to withhold. This was seen through gender roles,

education, and even through patriotism for one’s country. It seemed as if life during this time had
members living according to set rules. However, after Susan’s talk I was able to realize that
everyone has their own struggles and how common war is.
Tian Qiu:
At Ms.Susan Philip’s talk, I was able to get more understanding in other chapter
including chapter 2. She points out more dimensions such as political factions and
social-economical and cultural differences. These are critical and continuous factors that even
impact immigration still today. The Q&A section had chance to access other chapter’s content
that is undiscovered. During her section about describing the Chinese women, her suffering in
career and social path reminds me of those moment of hard time in China. Generation both suffer
and benefits with all dimensions of changes, and small changes in society would be such a
unavoidable huge impact to any individuals. It is almost impossible to believe how any
individual make brave decision in facing a complete new environment and survive to become
same as back then or even better.
Ethan Vuong:
The evening following Ms. Phillips' speech, I took time to really think about the
sacrifices that immigrants make when they choose to migrate to a new country. It was really
eye-opening to learn that many of these immigrants completely changed their careers upon
arrival in the United States. Come to think of it, it makes complete sense why they had to do that.
If I were a doctor in Vietnam and all I knew how to speak was Vietnamese, I could only imagine
how difficult it would be try and find a job practicing medicine in the U.S., where English is the
dominating language. The stories of the women in Ms. Phillips’ book sound a lot like the story of
my mom, who is a Vietnamese immigrant. Unfortunately, my mom is really busy right now with
travel, so I do not have the opportunity to interview her right now; I definitely will when she gets
back from her trip. Like many Vietnamese immigrants, she really wanted to keep family
together. Considering that the majority of my mom’s side of the family still live in California
goes to show that this is a common value shared among her family and families like the Ana’s
from chapter 2 of the book. Ms. Phillips asked me in class what my thoughts were on what it
means to be American. To be honest, I gave an answer that didn’t really reflect how I actually

felt because I was kind of put on the spot and didn’t know what to say. To answer that question
now, I think that being American means to have the freedom to form your own perception of
what it means to be American. In countries like North Korea, the concept of “what it means to be
North Korean” is highly regulated by the government. To be North Korean is to be loyal to the
Kim dynasty and conform to their societal standards. In America, we can practice individuality.
America places a strong emphasis on individual freedoms such as the freedom of religion,
assembly, speech and press. This culture allows us to decide whether or not being American
means to be patriotic or whatever else one can come up with.
Emily Zhang:
I thought Susan Philips’ lecture was eye-opening. We hear time and time again about
immigration to the United States and the difficulties that come with it, but we forget that each
and every immigrant has a different and unique story that they bring here. We forget that these
are real people with real lives, and not just some statistic we read online. I had read the chapter
where Ana and Juanita immigrate to the United States to escape the war in El Salvador, but
seeing the video played at the beginning of the lecture really gave a voice and appearance to the
words I was reading. The video also showed the lives and professions the women in the book had
before coming to the United States, and I could really see how much pride they had in their
work. Some were doctors, and some were teachers like Ana. I started thinking about it during the
lecture, but I could never imagine how hard it must be to give up everything you know. Further
into the lecture, I thought it was especially interesting when Mrs. Philips called on us, the
students, to engage and speak about our thoughts and opinions. She wanted to hear the story of
our parents immigrating to the United States. My parents both immigrated from China to New
York in the 1990s, so it made me reflect on everything that had sacrificed to come here. This was
very similar to Ana’s story of immigration for her family. One of my favorite moments from her
speaking during the lecture was when she asked us what being American meant to us.
Immediately, immigration and freedom of speech came to mind. Since we all come from
different backgrounds, we are able to exchange a diversity of thought even if we don’t agree with
each other. We have the freedom to do that. In the future, I will try to talk with my parents more
about their experiences immigrating to the United States, to learn and listen to their stories.

Rigoberto Garcia, Abel Lula, Alexander Clare, Amanda Pate, Ruyi Lu, Jodie Chen
Professor Esfandiari, Yuantong Li
Stats 112 A Window to Understanding Diversity
Week 2 Wednesday Discussion Reflection Questions
(Rigoberto Garcia) I read the chapter about Ana, a Salvadorean immigrant, and her
daughter Juanita who immigrated with her at a young age (11 years old). I had many reasons for
wanting to read this chapter: I’m Mexican-American so I love learning about the experiences of
other Latino/as, I have many Mexican immigrant stories so I wanted to branch out from the
Mexican immigrant chapter Ms.Philips offered, and there’s an unfortunate false narrative in the
Mexican community that we are to despise Salvadoreans. However, in reading about Ana and
Maria, there are many shared experiences between Salvadoran immigrants, Mexican immigrants,
and the generations of US citizens that follow them. One key aspect I want to focus on is the idea
of rasquachismo, a Chicano art form that draws from how many Mexicans in their daily lives
have to do what they can with what they have, resulting in art pieces that are displayed in
bathtubs, skulls made of sugar, and more. Ana talked about her time as a teacher in El Salvador,
where students were poor and could not afford all the supplies necessary to participate in class
like books, pencils, and paper. Yet, Ana says this lack of resources never dissuaded the students,
where some of them would share a single book or bring bugs from home to study insects,
reminding me of the rasquache lifestyle. While I have participated in rasquache activities
purposefully or unconsciously, I thought it was a Chicano invention, but Ana taught me that it is
an idea that unifies all Latinos.
(Jodie Chen) I read the chapter about a Vietnamese immigrant who escaped the
Communist regime with her family. She describes her family’s background, particularly

highlighting that her father was one of the few who was fortunate enough to receive an education
and learn how to read and write. Eventually, her father taught her how to read and write. How
her family saw education was that education could bring people more opportunities. They
believed that knowledge is power. One quote that stood out to me was “We teach our children if
they want a good life, they need to study, not to make money but to have knowledge so they can be good
people.” This quote resonates with me a lot since my mom is very against me having a part-time job since
she thinks it would take away from school. She believes that I will never make above minimum wage if I
“settle” for making this type of money now when I’m in college. I didn’t realize that this is a sentiment
shared by many immigrants; I used to get really annoyed whenever my mom brought this up but I can
understand where she’s coming from now.

(Amanda Pate) I read Chapter 1, which focused on Nara and Oktiabriana’s stories as
immigrant women from Armenia. It was clear in the reading that these women were incredibly
proud of their Armenian culture and heritage, falling into a category of immigrants that were
forced to flee rather than given the choice. Armenia has a tumultuous and unstable sociopolitical
landscape that worsened over the years, including the Armenian genocide from 1915-1922,
WWII, Stalin’s rule from 1924-1953 in which Armenia was part of the Soviet Republic, the war
with Azerbaijan from 1988-1994, and finally the fall of the Soviet Union bringing independence
that had been long fought for. Through all of this Nara’s family had held steadfast, prioritizing
education and making sure they survived. Just like for many, the breaking point did eventually
come though. Nara gave up her life as a teacher of Russian Literature and Language to follow
her husband to the United States and her mother Oktiabriana followed soon after, deeply
entrenched in a mother’s love and unwillingness to be separated. In this way, Oktiabriana chose
her family over her homeland, a painful decision that still hurts her as she misses Armenia and
what they had. She knows though, Armenia is not how they remember. Two quotes stood out to

me through the reading, “our strength is in our knowledge” and “the Armenian genocide caused
a huge pain. This pain comes from the milk of our mothers. This is part of our existence.”

(Ruyi Lu) The chapter I read recounted the story of the Vietnamese immigrant who fled
the communist regime along with her family. She was lucky in a sense that she was able to get
educated, which was relatively uncommon as for when she was born and where she lived. I have
relatives around Nguyen's age and they were never able to continue on with their education after
elementary school. Together with the mutual support from their family, this is probably what lit
their life when surrounded by darkness and despair. Besides her education experiences, I was
more stunned by how she wandered from place to place and endured so many hardships. There
was a quote that especially stood out to me, which said "other than death, we couldn't get any
lower. we had to take the chance". I couldn't describe how much desperation she lived through. It
seemed as if she was forced to make such a decision of leaving her land and everything she grew
up with, and I can't even imagine how courageous she was.

(Alexander Clare) I read about the Mexican immigrants Maria and Michelle. I felt like
their cultural identity was complex and important to them as human beings. Both women
emphasized that they identify with Mexican culture, but their status as immigrants dictates that
there is an American side to them as well. Michelle especially, since she was born in America,
has a dual identity that makes her unique. I felt that both women also emphasized the importance
of family in their lives, which is something I think derives from their Mexican heritage. Given
this, however, I was very interested in the section in which Maria remarried a Polish man. Maria
said that she wouldn’t expect to have married a man who isn’t Mexican, which is what I

would’ve expected. I think this is a good illustration of the complex cultural identity of these
women, as they culturally Mexican, but have experienced the melting pot that is America.

(Abel Lula) I read about the Mexican immigrants Maria and her daughter Michelle.
Maria wanted to pursue her education but it was very difficult for her because of her cultural
values and her family not being rich. She said she wishes she convinced her parents to pursue
teaching although her culture heavily relies on family and everything your parents say is right.
Another thing I noticed is how much Maria and Michelle were moving from Mexico to the US
due to the family needing to work in the US for money. This caused Michelle to feel like she was
losing her identity and that she was a part of two different cultures. Eventually, Maria ended up
choosing to permanently live in the US, which upset Michelle as she felt she had to start over
again. As a kid, I can’t imagine having to constantly move from place to place and trying to fit in
everywhere you go. I understand both of their perspectives and how difficult of a decision it is to
immigrate to a new country.

(Whole Group) As a group, we didn’t necessarily have a change in behavior, but rather a
better awareness of the immigrant groups we read about. We all noticed that the women in the
chapters put an emphasis on the value of education. For these immigrant women from Vietnam,
Armenia, and El Salvador, literacy brings opportunity, knowledge is power, and studying makes
good people. Each story also presents a relationship to America, whether through politics in
Armenia, colonialism in Vietnam, or differences in education, as Ana thought Americans do not
appreciate the resources they have to support their education. Overall, we found that immigration
education is valued based on how America sees their education, where career women in these

foreign countries did not have transferable documents that equated to an “American education”
that is perceived as better and not given the same respect.

Survey about NLP

Rigoberto
Garcia

Abel Lula

Alexander
Clare

Amanda
Pate

Ruyi Lu

Jodie Chen

1. Have
you ever
use NLP?
Yes/no

No

No

No

No

Yes

no

2. If yes
what
software?

N/A

N/A

None

N/A

Python

n/a

3. Have
you used it
in any
project?

I have
never used
NLP

No

No

Technicall
y yes, for
DataFest
but it was
my
teammate
who used
it.

Yes

n/a

4. Did you
learn about
it in a class
or did you
teach
yourself?

I haven’t
Neither
been
taught
anything in
NLP

Neither

I’ve taught
myself a
little bit.

half-half

n/a

5. If you
had to use
NLP on a

1

1

1

3

0

1

project,
how would
you rate
your
skills?

Susan Phillips Reflection
Kailyn Nguyen (606036735), Junseong Hwang(505550240), Kevin Li (805733229), Daphne
Hidley (105502680), Aidan Ohlson
Kailyn Nguyen
Susan Phillips was a very enthusiastic and engaging speaker. Her talk felt more like a
discussion as she encouraged everyone to speak their own opinions and thoughts on her book.
She sparked a lot of conversation about what it means to be an American, which garnered mixed
opinions from the class. She asked if anyone related to the womens’ experiences in her book, to
which a lot of us did. I was able to speak out during class about how Thuynga’s story really
resonated with myself and my family. The hardships that she went through reminded me a lot of
what my mother told me she and her family went through to immigrate from Vietnam to
America.
My mother always told me stories of her life back in Vietnam, and how her family was
very wealthy and owned lots of land and had many maids. My father also had a wealthy life,
where his parents valued education and hired English tutors for himself and all his siblings. After
the North took over, my parents both had no choice but to immigrate to America. My mother and
her family came on a sponsorship by a family in America. When they arrived, life was very
different. They worked odd jobs to make ends meet. My uncle told me my grandmother worked
hours on a farm picking apricots, just so she could afford a blanket for her children to sleep with
at night.
This reminded me of Xidan’s story, where she had a very successful life in China but
after immigrating to the United States she had almost nothing. It took her a couple years to be
able to work, and even after getting jobs she still did not make enough to fully support herself.
Susan Phillips’ talk really opened my eyes to the stories of immigration, and how my family also
went through many struggles just like the others in her book.
Junseong Hwang (505550240)
Susan Philips delivered a talk that was both enlightening and captivating. She engaged us
with compelling discussions derived from her book, facilitating a space for open conversation
and individual contemplation. Philips encouraged attendees to express their personal insights and
experiences, making the session more interactive and intimate. Her exploration of "what it means
to be an American" invoked a multitude of viewpoints, making it a stimulating part of the
discussion. I felt a personal affinity with the conversation, especially with the women’s stories
shared. The tales of adversity, adjustment, and resilience mirrored my own or my family's
experiences and journey. Philips’s knack for creating an environment where personal narratives

could be intertwined with the essence of her book made the session not just educational, but also
profoundly reflective and connective.

Kevin Li (805733229)
I really enjoyed the talk given by Susan Philips. It was very effective to first play an
introduction video before the talk because it allowed us to become more familiar with the people
she interviewed and wrote about in her book. Throughout her talk, she was enthusiastic about the
work she has done around her book as well as in general. The fact that she still remembers many
details of her interaction with the people she interviewed demonstrates how sincerely and deeply
she cares about them. After hearing the talk, I have gained a better understanding of the struggles
and challenges experienced by immigrants in the United States, which made me respect the
immigrants even more considering the courage and persistence it takes to overcome all the
difficulties. Another important takeaway from the talk was that people should always pay respect
to the cultural background of the immigrants because most immigrants are proud of their own
culture. Near the end of the talk, we were asked the question of what it means to be American,
which is a question that can have many correct answers because the cultures in the United States
are diverse, so that each person may view his American identity from a different perspective. As
a foreigner, it's hard for me to tell what it means to be American, but my understanding of the
American identity would center around freedom, such as the freedom of speech and the freedom
of being your true self.

Daphne Hidley (105502680)
Susan Philip’s talk that she gave in class on Wednesday was very interesting and
engaging for me to listen to. I never had any personal experience in my family of immigration,
so the topic always felt very distant and foreign to me. Reading Ms. Philip’s book, watching her
short film, and listening to her talk gave me a whole new perspective on the struggles that
immigrants go through whether it's from before they came and once they arrived. Because of the
stories she told of the women in her book, I was able to relate my own experiences to theirs to
get a better understanding of how they must have felt. This summer, I studied abroad in Paris for
two months, so I know the feeling of feeling out of place in a new country, feeling like you can’t
get anything right with the culture, and feeling lost in the language. I had even studied french for
four years at that point, so I can’t imagine how scary it must feel to go somewhere completely
unlike your home country without being able to communicate. This helped me empathize with
the immigrant experience in America. Ms. Philip’s talk also made me think about my greatgrandmother who immigrated to America from the Czech Republic and died when I was young. I

wonder what she must have been through to come here and how hard it must have been for her to
adapt. I wish I could ask her these questions. The one story I remember about her is that when
she came to America, she was pregnant with my grandfather and she didn’t speak a word of
english. When she was giving birth in an American hospital, she was so scared and she was
trying to communicate with the nurses but she could only speak Czech. Then, her doctor came in
and miraculously, he knew how to speak Czech too and could make her feel heard in such an
important moment. I wish that all immigrant women would be treated with the same kindness
today.
Aidan Ohlson
I enjoyed listening to Susan Philips talk about female immigrants to America. Hearing
her speak about all of their stories was very interesting because each woman had very different
circumstances that made them come to America. I could sympathize with them because of all of
the bad situations that they went through. I also enjoyed the question she brought up about what
American culture is. I thought it was interesting to hear everyone’s opinion on what that means
to them. Some people thought that it was the sense of opportunity that the country brings or the
freedom for individualism. I wonder what those women would think American culture is from an
outside view.

Group Question
Whole group: Did reading the chapter and listening to Ms. Philips change your attitude
or future behavior in any way?
Ijung Park
When we thought about the reading and Susan Phillips' lectures at the same time, we
could see the difficulties in various fields facing them to live as an immigrant in the
United States. It was found that the various factors they overcame as immigrants in the
United States, such as language barriers, downward revision of jobs, cultural barriers,
and longing for their hometown, gave them difficulty in living their lives.
In addition, various perceptions of immigrants in the United States were also found.
Susan said there were preconceived notions and dislikes of the United States at the
time of writing the book, and the people in the book also claimed that Americans wanted
to tell their stories because they had no idea of the difficulties and suffering immigrants
face.
And we could see that the environment in which Americans lived was very different from
the people in the book. In the case of Nara, who immigrated from Armenia, war with
Azerbaijan over Nagorno-Karabakh broke down the economic system of Armenia and
immigrated to survive in an uninhabitable environment, but it can be seen that it was
difficult for Americans to understand immigrants because they were far from worried
about the survival.
Nathaniel Wu
After Susan Phillips guest lecture, I decided to interview my mother, Jing, an
immigrant woman from China. She had decided to immigrate to the United States
shortly after she had graduated from college. My mother was in attendance at the
Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989, where her good friend was jailed and my dad’s
good friend was killed. Motivated by both her desire to travel and also the political
turmoil of communist China, she came to the United States.

At the time, she chose America because it was the best country in the world – no
other country was even close to its development. In her generation, the American
dream was everyone’s dream. However, going to graduate school in the US proved to
be a very difficult goal. Jing ended up immigrating here on a full tuition scholarship to
UofSC, one of the only schools that sponsored international students (especially those
who weren’t visiting researchers). Coming here on her own and being very limited
financially, my mom persevered. After she built a foundation here, my dad also
immigrated and they were able to start a family and give their children an American life.
At the end of her story, I asked her if she had any regrets and if she would do
anything differently if she could. She answered that it would be hard to tell right now. On
the surface level, my mother missed out on a lot. Today, most of my parents’ peers and
old friends and family are very wealthy. By coming to the United States, my parents
missed the largest ever economic boom in China. But if they had never come to
America, their lives would have been considerably different, and they would not have
had access to the liberties they enjoy today.
Zoe Lu - 705534819
I think listening to Ms. Phillips' talk and reading/ watching the video on her book
did change my attitude in some ways as it made me realize just how privileged I am to
be able to live in the United States. For most people, we subconsciously know that we
are privileged to have gotten to grow up in the United States but hearing and reading
about the experience of immigrating directly from immigrants helps put things into
perspective and makes you think about the things you might not think about on a daily
basis and how grateful we should be. Additionally, when hearing and discussing the
questions Ms.Phillips asked the class, it was interesting to think about some of the
questions since I never really thought about it myself such as choosing a word to
describe what it means to live in America. Hearing other people’s response made me
think deeper about the question and I realized that if I were to be put on the spot to
answer that question I probably wouldn't have been able to give an answer quickly since
I’ve been so privileged to grow up in America that this wasn’t really a question I thought
much about. Listening and reading the book also truly showed just how hard

immigrants have it as well as the impact that it had on children of immigrants as well.
Both my parents were immigrants but they never talked much about the hardships they
had to face moving to a whole new country. Unlike the women in the book, my parents
didn’t immigrate to the United States because of war or bad circumstances back home.
They just chose to immigrate for the plentiful opportunities that their home country
couldn’t have offered. Though my experience with immigrant parents does not quite
resemble those in the book, this book allowed me to have a deeper appreciation for my
parents, as immigrants, and for all immigrants who come to the United States with
hopes of building a better life.
Jasper Peng - 705358694
Attending Susan Philip's lecture and reading her book was a profound reminder of the
immense privilege my family and I have as first-generation immigrants in the United
States. The immigrant experience in the United States is a testament to resilience,
determination, and the ability to transform challenges into opportunities. Education
emerges as a cornerstone for many immigrants, serving as a vital avenue for
surmounting hurdles. By prioritizing learning and seeking scholarships, they gain
essential skills to break barriers and forge meaningful lives in their new homeland.
Entrepreneurship becomes another pivotal path where immigrants draw from their
cultural backgrounds to establish businesses, contributing to local economies and
creating a sense of community. Tight-knit support networks within immigrant
communities offer emotional aid and guidance, empowering newcomers to navigate
unfamiliar systems and secure employment.
Language acquisition and cultural adaptation are significant challenges, but immigrants
overcome them through ESL programs and community initiatives, fostering social
integration and employability. Immigrants preserve their cultural heritage while
embracing American customs and enriching the nation's diversity. Their unyielding
perseverance and work ethic drive their success, showcasing their strength in unity and
diversity.

My reflection on the immigrant experience deepened after attending Susan Philip's
lecture and reading Thuyga's story. Their narratives were stark reminders of the
privileges my family and I enjoy as first-generation immigrants in the United States.
Thuyga's journey from Vietnam to the U.S. highlighted the transformative power of
education, emphasizing the value of knowledge amid adversity. Her determination to
contribute to her homeland's reconstruction resonated deeply, reflecting the enduring
spirit of immigrants seeking a brighter future. These stories reinforced the importance of
empathy and understanding, compelling me to advocate for a more inclusive society.
They underscored our collective responsibility to foster a world where everyone,
regardless of their background, can thrive and realize their dreams.
Arielle Davis - 205067824
I was happy to hear Susan Philips, the author, share her intentions behind the book. I
think any piece of art should be able to stand on its own when conveying a certain
message but, hearing the creator’s desire adds an additional nuance to the perception
of the piece. When discussing the book chapters with Phillips and my peers I got more
emotional than I think was appropriate. After class, some students somewhat jokingly
supported what I had said during the discussion. Still, I don’t think getting worked up
was very helpful. I had read chapter three about Ana and Juanita so I was already
angry. I was very appalled by what the two women had to endure. Hearing Phillips talk
about Jing made me feel worse. That’s not to say their stories were all bad, but I was
certainly exuding more negativity than I’d like. I think going forward, I hope to address
further discussion in the course without emotional bias. I felt embarrassed. In a course
where the entire premise is to discuss diversity, I should behave more maturely.
Returning to the book's content, I think both the chapter I read and the guest lecture led
me to investigate the benefits of living in the United States (since I had focused on the
cons previously). I spoke about it with my family, some of whom work for the
government and discussed the odd complacency of the general public. In addition to
conspiracy theories, we talked about what it meant for the everyday American to not
have had a war at home in over fifty years. It is a privilege to live without fear of political

turmoil, drafts, and battle, one that was heavily emphasized when reading about Ana
and Juanita in El Salvador's corrupt government. Going forward, I think it might benefit
me to consider the positive fortunes of living in the United States because it may
provide me with a better outlook on my own life rather than a pessimistic one.

‭ hole group: Did reading the chapter and listening to Ms. Philips change your‬
W
‭attitude or future behavior in any way?‬
‭ egina:‬
R
‭Reading about the stories of immigrants who came to the US for various reasons—in‬
‭search of better opportunities, escaping conflicts, etc—and listening to Ms. Phillips‬
‭reinforce the idea that there is no one way to be American. These people talk about‬
‭assimilating into the culture, how the cultural values they were raised and identified with‬
‭became influenced with what they perceive to be American values. Therefore, in terms‬
‭of attitude or future behavior, there is a need to understand that American people are‬
‭the result of multitude of experiences and different cultural values.‬
‭ hyoung:‬
A
‭Reading the chapter led me to raise empathy and have a deeper understanding of the‬
‭experiences of immigrants. I learned more about different cultures and the importance‬
‭of preserving identity. In the book, the women tell their stories: why they immigrated,‬
‭how they felt as immigrants, and what hardships they struggled with. They left behind‬
‭their languages, cultures, jobs, and even families. It may not result in immediate and‬
‭tangible changes in behavior, but it contributes to a broader understanding of the‬
‭immigrant experience and diverse cultures. I realized there should be power in the‬
‭people who tell other people their own stories.‬
‭ esen Ma:‬
Z
‭Reading about these chapters made me realize that people gave up many valuable and‬
‭important friends, family and occupations, in order to come to the U.S. for a better life.‬
‭They often struggled a lot at first, in a brand new nation. But they were all very tough‬
‭and resilient, and finally they were able to overcome the language barrier, cultural‬
‭shock, and homesickness, and built a life for themselves. I really admire their courage‬
‭and spirit for coming into a new world and adapting to the environment. I think it is very‬
‭difficult to accomplish such things. During Mr.Phillips' talk, she mentioned two factors‬
‭that were most difficult for these women, when they immigrated to the United States.‬
‭The first one is language and the second one is culture. In the books, most of them‬
‭struggled with these two factors as well. Some of these women chose to do the‬
‭interviews in their native languages and some of them chose to use English. I think‬
‭using their native language shows how much they miss their country and culture. During‬
‭the talk, I think Mr.Philips raised two questions; What does it mean to be American?‬
‭What is American culture? Being an international student, I don’t think I am the most‬
‭qualified person to answer these two questions, but I think diversity and freedom are the‬
‭two factors that make the American culture and people in this nation so unique‬
‭compared to many other cultures. Diversity brings so many different talents, power,‬

k‭ nowledge, and culture into this one place. And the freedom here is the container that‬
‭can protect and hold these differences. It was an inspiring talk, and I learned many new‬
‭things and perspectives.‬

‭ evin:‬
K
‭The stories of the immigrants made me reflect on the different motives and backgrounds‬
‭of moving to the U.S. For instance, the majority of the people in my situation as an‬
‭international student do not face life-threatening dangers, or another desperate reason‬
‭to settle down in America. This helped me rethink about the gravity of moving to another‬
‭country, and what it means to leave your home. It also helped me realize that my global‬
‭experiences would have been very different if it weren’t for the technological advances‬
‭that allowed me to remain connected to my roots.‬
‭ ldo:‬
A
‭Reading through the chapters on immigrant experiences, I was deeply moved by the‬
‭sacrifices many made – leaving behind cherished friends, beloved family members, and‬
‭established careers – all in pursuit of a better life in the U.S. Their initial days were often‬
‭marred by struggles, navigating a world so unfamiliar and at times, unforgiving. Yet,‬
‭their tenacity and resilience shone through, as they battled linguistic challenges, cultural‬
‭differences, and the gnawing pangs of homesickness to carve out a niche for‬
‭themselves in a new land. Their sheer courage, their ability to step into the unknown‬
‭and adapt, is truly commendable. Such feats, I believe, are monumental. During Susan‬
‭Phillips' discourse, she emphasized two primary challenges faced by these women‬
‭upon their immigration to the U.S.: the language and the cultural divide. This resonated‬
‭with the book's narratives, with some women opting to share their stories in their native‬
‭tongues, perhaps a poignant reminder of the homes they left behind. Ms. Phillips posed‬
‭two significant questions during her talk: "What does it mean to be American?" and‬
‭"What defines American culture?" As an international student in the U.S., I find myself‬
‭here driven by the quest for opportunities and experiences, especially in the data‬
‭science industry, that I felt were limited in my home country. While I might not have a‬
‭deep-rooted understanding of the American identity, I perceive its uniqueness to lie in its‬
‭diversity and the freedom it offers. This nation's strength emerges from its‬
‭amalgamation of varied talents, knowledge, cultures, and backgrounds, all thriving‬
‭under the protective embrace of the freedoms championed here. Ms. Phillips' insights‬
‭were undoubtedly enlightening, broadening my horizons on the immigrant narrative.‬

Group 8:
Maneh Begi, Aidan Gresham, Edward Halim, Min Jung Kim, Brittney Trinh, Yaquan Wang
Aidan Gresham: Reading the chapter about Thuynga, the Vietnamese refugee, and listening to
Ms. Philips has changed my attitude on life and safety throughout the world. In terms of
changing my behavior, it has made me appreciate having lived in the United States for my entire
life, where I have never had to struggle due to poverty, war, or violence. I learned a lot from Ms.
Philips’s talk, as I was able to learn more about each of the women who were interviewed and
their cultural backgrounds. It was interesting to hear the women’s perspective on American
culture and their experiences as immigrants trying to assimilate to American life and culture. For
example, the language barrier was difficult as many of them had to learn English for the first
time after arriving in the United States. Many of them had to give up their careers back in their
home country. Reading Ms. Philips’s book and listening to her speak has allowed me to learn
more about the immigrant experience in the United States.
Brittney Trinh: Listening to Philips’s talk reminded me that I need to be mindful about peoples’
backgrounds and upbringings. The United States is a diverse country and hearing the stories
that Philips highlighted reminds me of my own family and how they immigrated here from
another country. I thought it was interesting how similar some of the womens’ perspectives on
life were to my parents, and yet they were still different from one another. Although no two
immigration experiences are the same, there is some comfort in knowing that we are not alien to
the country, but rather an integral part of the United States and its rich history. I also found it
thoughtful that Philips named her book In the Heart of Another–this humanizes our stories and
helps immigrants feel less alone in their journeys.
Yaquan Wang: Susan Philip’s talk inspired me and gave me a deeper understanding of
immigration. Besides reading chapter 5 of her book, In the Heart of Another, the talk made me
realize what these immigrant women had given up in order to live in the United States. We could
see how proud these women were when they mentioned their professions back in their own
country: some of them were teachers, one of them was a programmer, another was a doctor,
and so on. We can see many of them couldn’t get to do what they love. In my opinion, Xidan
was successful back in China. However, when she came to the US, she had no capital, no
experience, and no access to well-paid jobs so she had to do massage for a living. She had to
give up a lot. What impressed me the most about Susan Philip’s talk was the two questions that
she asked us: What does it mean to be in America(the United States)? What is American
culture? In terms of the guest culture and host culture, it is enlightening for me to think about
how the United States can be a melting pot of different cultures if many different cultures have
such separate values, beliefs, and norms.

Edward Halim: Upon reflecting on Susan Phlips’ book and her stories, it becomes evident just
how fortunate we are. We still enjoy the privilege of having a roof over our heads and warm
meals on our tables. In these stories, it’s clear that many individuals endured the hardships of
war, slavery, and the heart-wrenching act of leaving behind everything they held dear in pursuit
of what we often take for granted today. These courageous souls sacrificed their pasts in hopes
of a brighter future in the United States. Some were driven by the Cold War, which posed a
constant threat to their lives and the safety of their loved ones. Others willingly left behind their

successful careers and wealth to embrace a more modest life in the US. They had it all, but
unforeseeable circumstances compelled them to pack their bags and embark on an uncertain
journey. From these stories, I learned to recognize and appreciate the privileges I have in my life
that often take for granted. Understanding the struggles faced by those who have overcome
immense challenges to secure a better future in a new land, I aim to support and welcome
newcomers with open arms, fostering an environment of inclusion and understanding. These
stories have truly opened my eyes to the importance of kindness, empathy, and solidarity in
shaping a diverse society since each individual has their own stories and backgrounds to share.
Min Jung Kim: After reading chapter one and listening to Ms. Philips’ talk, I reflected on my life
and family. Reading how it was for the Armenians during the Genocide was shocking and made
me think about my family. My family is from Korea. I still hear stories from my grandparents
about how they had to flee from home to survive the Korean War. My family is fortunate, as we
did not experience the heartbreak of being divided between North and South Korea. However,
my family did go through the horrors of the Korean War. Furthermore, I also had a time of selfreflection after Ms. Philips’ talk. The video that Ms. Philips showed us during the lecture gave
me a deeper understanding of each woman’s journey. On top of the video, Ms. Philips
mentioned during her talk that many women went through a hard time not only because of the
language barriers but also because they had to give up their careers and life in their home
country. Reading, listening, and viewing all these stories, it was enlightening to see each
woman’s unique challenges as immigrants adjusting to a new country. I also realized how
privileged I am as an international student at UCLA since some give up their everything to live in
the United States. The stories of these women have made me realize that each journey is filled
with its own unique challenges, and I should not take my privileges for granted.
Maneh Begi: Reading Chapter 1 of Susan Philips’ book was heartbreaking for me as an
Armenian. Armenians have suffered through over a century of continuous massacre and ethnic
cleansing perpetrated by both Turkey and Azerbaijan. It was interesting to read about Nara’s
personal experience and family background in comparison to mine. During the short film, Nara’s
mother, speaking in Armenian, explained how she misses and longs for her homeland but does
not miss the government. However, that is what the written captions and translation stated.
None of the other students in the room were able to understand the Armenian words she spoke,
only I was. In reality, she said the government is broken, and the state of the inhabitants of
Armenia is devastating and chaotic. While the class giggled reading, “I do not miss the
government,” I heard her real words and resonated with the pain of my people. After hearing
Ms. Philips speak about her book and watching the short introduction film, I became more
aware of the privilege we hold living in the United States. Although my people and family
underwent genocide and intense maltreatment, I’ve never experienced such brutality firsthand. I
am able to feel their pain and grief but am not able to entirely understand the extent of the
tragedies. Hearing the stories of not only my culture, but other cultures as well, reminded me
how lucky I am to live the life I do. Immigrants travel to the United States for freedom and
opportunity, yet we’ve never felt the same fear and worry of leaving our homes and have never
experienced struggles with the language barrier. The book sheds light on the hardships
immigrants go through from the perspective of various women from various cultures. In addition,
discussing my experiences as a great-granddaughter of an Armenian Genocide survivor with
Ms. Philips herself was cathartic in a way. Being able to educate my classmates about the
horrors of the Genocide and the ongoing war in Karabakh filled me with a bittersweet feeling of

a combination of passion and fury. Overall, this experience made me feel extremely grateful and
gave me further insight into immigration.

According to a report released by the International Organization for Migration in 2022,
281 million people out of the global population are immigrants, which is the largest number
within the last 5 decades. Considering the fact that countries are more closely connected to each
other than ever before due to globalization and the substantial power of social media, this can be
seen as a natural phenomenon. But is actual life as an immigrant the same as what we experience
indirectly through our Instagram feeds and YouTube vlogs? According to the studies and
interviews I have conducted, not so much.
I held an online interview with my close friend Rachel, who is Korean and currently 23,
living in New York. Rachel’s family of 4 immigrated to New York when Rachel was 8 years old,
and she has stayed ever since. I started off the meeting by asking if she remembered the first few
years of living in New York. And to my surprise, she did. She answered that the memories from
her first few years in New York were so vivid that they stuck to her head, even until now. Most
of the memories she shared with me were moments of adversity. She reminisced of the first time
she and her family got kicked out of a restaurant. Right after informing her family that the house
was full, the waiter welcomed another white family into the restaurant. It wasn’t the fact that
they were rejected that shocked Rachel, it was the fact that the waiter welcomed the family right
behind theirs, with a face that showed no guilt or shame. She recalled that when her family
returned home to have a home-cooked meal instead, the family ate the meal in silence, all
probably shocked by the previous happening at the restaurant.
Rachel also shared her memories about her school life, and she told me it was especially
more difficult for her to fit in and make friends because there weren’t a lot of Asians in her
grade. Rachel was made fun of for lunch bags very often. Because Korean dishes can sometimes
carry a unique smell that could be unfamiliar to people from other cultures, kids in her class
would taunt Rachel for the way her lunch smelled. Rachel said that these two incidents: the one
at the restaurant and at school during lunchtime, became a core memory that she could not
forget. She said that she still remembers those moments in video motion.
Next, when I asked her about what she misses about Korea the most, she said it was a
“sense of community”. In the neighborhood she used to live in in Korea, everyone would know
who lived next door and every family would feel safe to leave their child with the family next
door for a few hours. In New York, she said that it appeared as if everyone was a stranger and
nobody fancied having a close relationship with her or her family. Another thing that she
mentioned she missed was her friends. She said that she missed her friends back in Korea, and
felt sad because there was no way of getting back in touch with them since SNS was nonexistent
back then.
When I asked what she loved about her life in New York, she mentioned “freedom”. I
found this interesting because in the interview video of “In the Heart of Another”, many of the
interviewees answered in the same way. When I asked Rachel if she could talk more in detail
about the type of freedom that she experienced, she said that people didn’t judge her for dressing
in a certain way. In other words, she appreciated the fact that people didn’t care about how others
looked. She could sense how freeing this was when she visited Korea during her vacation.
People in Korea care a lot about their own looks but also care about others’ looks and what they
wear on the streets. If you wear something that, in their eyes, looks promiscuous, they will stare

you down. Experiencing this in Korea, Rachel realized when she went back to New York how
thankful she was for not having to be judged while walking down the street.
Re-listening to this portion of the interview again made me realize something in common
between some of the immigrants that I encountered. They all hold a paradoxical desire of ‘being
recognized’, but also ‘being invisible’. Immigrants wish to ‘be recognized’ and to be respected
for who they are, as well as the roots they come from. However, they also wish to ‘be invisible’
so that they can naturally blend into the surrounding environment.
If we take Rachel’s story as an example, she mentioned how shocking it was that the rude
waiter treated her family as if they ‘were invisible’. Here, we can tell that she holds the desire of
‘being recognized’ and respected. Yet, later when we discussed what she loves about New York,
she particularly commented on the fact that she admires it that people don’t care about what she
dresses in, that they treat her as if she were ‘invisible’. Here, it is clear she yearns to ‘be
invisible’.
Also, in “In the Heart of Another”, Xi Dan Wang is an ambitious Chinese woman who
has built a respectable career in China and also wants to build a corresponding career in the
United States. In other words, she wants to be ‘recognized’ by her profession and career. But at
the same time, she mentions how she was relieved by the fact that nobody cared about the
divorce with her husband. In this case, she was relieved by the fact that she was ‘invisible’ to
others.
The way I understand this coexisting desire of “being recognized” and also “being
invisible” is this: immigrants wish to “be recognized” when they are viewed as an individual but
wish to “be invisible” when they are viewed as a part of a community. I believe that the only way
for both of these desires of immigrants to be fulfilled is for native citizens to actively try to get to
know who their neighboring immigrants are. Something as simple as starting small talks about
the immigrant living next door and getting to know about their roots, their profession, or even
their favorite food could help them recognize immigrants as “just another citizen living next
door”.
In conclusion, through my interview with Rachel and watching as well as reading about
the book “In the Heart of Another '', I was able to better understand the true desires that
immigrants hold in common. Small, but thoughtful acts of showing interest towards fellow
immigrant neighbors shown by native citizens could be the most important step to fulfill
immigrants’ desires of “being recognized” as individuals and “being invisible” as members of a
community.
