An interesting theme that continues to pop up in the story of María Luisa Onody is
education. The first mention of school is in the paragraph about her grandmother, who would say
she had a pizarrón (blackboard) in her home. This ties in later when María says that she loved
school, but her mother never encouraged her to go further than elementary school. This is clearly
indicative of the role that women had generally played in rural Mexican life. This theme of
difficulty through education continues throughout her whole life like when she graduates from
Escuela Normal, a stark contrast from what her academic life could have looked like if she
completed her studies in the United States.
Questions: How have cultural ties either inhibited or helped your academic endeavors in the
past?
What, in your opinion, are the biggest changes in attitudes towards women in education recently?
I was surprised by the level of devotion that her father and mother held toward the CCP
movement by sacrificing more than fourteen hours a day for work. I am curious about the extent
that people in China today know about the Cultural Revolution and how it split up many
families. The immense belief in this ideology and fear of ostracization drove Xidan to prove her
worth. I am interested to learn more about Xidan’s rejection of the traditional beliefs on marriage
and if many others of her generation would agree with her. Although she mentions frequently her
obligation to her country and being taught that there is no individualism, her actions and
motivations to prove herself through her business also seem very individualistic. I was
wondering how she reconciles those aspects of her life.
---------------The chapter I read was about Nara and Oktiabrina and their experiences as Armenian refugees.
One thing I found incredibly intriguing was how Nara said that communist families had “red
baptisms” where they would give their children names such as Proletariat or Vladmir to show
their dedication to the Bolshevik Revolution. Oktiabrina’s name means October, the month the
revolution started. Despite the dedication of her family to the Communist Party, her grandfather
was thrown into prison for being an accused Trotskyite and denounced the party after his release
from incarceration. I found this to be a really interesting point throughout the reading because it
shows how people are often enticed into blind devotion to a certain political party or ideology
that does not exist to benefit them. This devotion can be seen today with President Trump as his
supporters demonstrate a strong passion and loyalty to a leader that does not follow through on
his promises for their betterment. Another thing I found shocking was the fact that the Armenian
Genocide is constantly ignored and blatantly unaccepted by the government of Turkey, even after
one and one-half million Armenians were killed. I personally did not know anything about the
Armenian Genocide, or the injustices Armenians faced. I think the American education system
selectively chooses which major historical events students are going to be taught and this leaves
us with a very Westernized viewpoint that shows us the United States through rose-colored
glasses, similar to what Nara said about her experiences in the Soviet Union. While the
conditions in the United States are not nearly as extreme as those in the Soviet Union where Nara
grew up, I think it is important to recognize similarities in our experiences as a way of reflection.

I read Chapter 1 from Susan Philips’ book which was about an Armenian woman telling her
family’s story of living in Armenia. I thought it was really interesting how she started the story
with her grandparents and then worked her way down the family tree. It seemed as though,
across the generations, their quality of life got better. However, despite the increased quality of
life, family members from each generation still experienced discrimination for being Armenian.
It was also heartbreaking to read the section where she outlined her dreams for a prosperous
future in Armenia where they have a strong economy, people are living comfortably, and
Armenians who left the country can return to their home. Having stability is something we often
take for granted living in the U.S. and her description of such simple but perhaps hard to achieve
dreams puts our privilege and luck in perspective. I would be curious to see what Susan Philips
thinks about the future of immigrant women in the U.S.
to Ms. Phillip’s Book: China After reading Philips’ chapter about Xidan, I was very shocked to
learn about the history of China and the cultural revolution through a woman’s perspective.
Compared to the US, where I grew up, I found many differences between the culture and
traditions, and importantly how women were treated. Xidan’s story was very inspiring to hear
because of the hardships she went through. I really enjoyed hearing about her background and
her story to success. I am very impressed that Xidan became a doctor, trained as a plastic
surgeon, and also built a very successful beauty spa in China, despite the disadvantages and
hardships she went through as a child and young woman. Reading about her experiences made
me question the differences between the US and China, specifically the treatment to women. I
was shocked to hear that women in China had to follow so many rules, and were expected to
follow traditions, such as staying home to take of their child, being a housewife, or even not
speaking up for themselves when needed, therefore I was really touched to read that Xidan
rejected all these traditions and was motivated and eager to fight for her beliefs and for what she
wants. Additionally, I thought it was amazing how China is becoming more united, unlike times
in the cultural revolution under Mao Zhedong’s leadership. Although China has been closed to
the rest of the world, China is now considered one of the most powerful countries and they are
proud of their ability to finally be able to live in peace and respect.
The chapter I read was about Nara and Oktiabrina and their experiences as Armenian refugees.
One thing I found incredibly intriguing was how Nara said that communist families had “red
baptisms” where they would give their children names such as Proletariat or Vladmir to show
their dedication to the Bolshevik Revolution. Oktiabrina’s name means October, the month the
revolution started. Despite the dedication of her family to the Communist Party, her grandfather
was thrown into prison for being an accused Trotskyite and denounced the party after his release
from incarceration. I found this to be a really interesting point throughout the reading because it
shows how people are often enticed into blind devotion to a certain political party or ideology
that does not exist to benefit them. This devotion can be seen today with President Trump as his
supporters demonstrate a strong passion and loyalty to a leader that does not follow through on
his promises for their betterment. Another thing I found shocking was the fact that the Armenian
Genocide is constantly ignored and blatantly unaccepted by the government of Turkey, even after
one and one-half million Armenians were killed. I personally did not know anything about the
Armenian Genocide, or the injustices Armenians faced. I think the American education system
selectively chooses which major historical events students are going to be taught and this leaves

us with a very Westernized viewpoint that shows us the United States through rose-colored
glasses, similar to what Nara said about her experiences in the Soviet Union. While the
conditions in the United States are not nearly as extreme as those in the Soviet Union where Nara
grew up, I think it is important to recognize similarities in our experiences as a way of reflection.
I chose to read Chapter 2 on China and I thought the reading had many interesting topics, one
being the drastic changes the country and people of China went through during the mid-to-late
20th century. The part that fascinated me the most was the Cultural Revolution, and how families
were brainwashed into purging their friends, family, and even themselves for the greater good of
the Communist party because of their socioeconomic status, beliefs, or wrongdoings. I also
thought it was interesting how fast Chinese society recovered post-cultural revolution; while
traditional culture and traditions remained, they were able to pursue education, start businesses,
and adopt Western practices of beauty and society (all things that would have categorized them
under the Five Black Categories of the cultural revolution). It’s also important to note the
challenges woman face(d) in an evolving society such as China; they were still expected to
conform to social norms and be the inferior relative to a man, yet they are still expected to
succeed and “have face”. Xidan shamed her parents, worked in the countryside, went to college
and became a doctor, started her own beauty business, went through a hard marriage, and moved
to the United Sates. It’s amazing how one woman can push through so much struggle and
hardship to overcome gender norms and societal barriers to her becoming a scholar and doctor.
Even in the US, Xidan didn’t know the language, the customs, or what to expect and she has still
made a life for herself. Lastly, it’s inspiring to see how far the Chinese people have come from
just 50 years ago; China’s history still haunts members of society but they are now one of the
most economically productive, rapidly growing countries in the world exporting talent in
education, sports, technology, etc. across the globe. While this success story is not representative
of all Chinese people who experienced the Cultural Revolution and the CCP’s current reign, it
does show how your background, experiences, and knowledge can contribute to society, and how
far you can come to achieve your goals and aspirations. .
I read the chapter about Xidan Wang, chapter 2 of Ms. Philip’s book. This story was very
interesting since it kind of related to my family background. The experiences that Xidan had are
nowhere near what my mother experienced but were similar since she had immigrated to
America from China. My mother was pressured to marry at a young age and came from a
background of farming in a rural area in Guangdong, China. Contrary to what Xidan had
experienced, my mother did not receive much education. The highest level of education that she
completed was middle school. Coming to America, she was not able to communicate well with
others since she could not speak English. Even now, her English is still not very good. Reading
Xidan’s story gave insight to the many traditions of Chinese culture that I had known for a long
time existed but have never known of people who had experienced them. Being Chinese, I’ve
learned that the traditions and expectations that were carried on in the past have evolved now,
and we as the newer generation are not required to meet the expectations that were set from the
older generation. Xidan’s story had followed many of the older traditions that were set, passed
down for generations. Now, especially those who are American born Chinese are only held to a
couple of those standards such as, getting married, doing well in school, and having children.

Xidan’s story reminded me much of the experiences of my mother. She had given everything up
in China and moved to America, to give me and my siblings a better chance at life.
I had the opportunity to read the chapter from Ms. Susan Philips’ book discussing Xidan’s
journey to becoming a doctor in China, her experiences with marriage, and her eventual move to
the United States. Reading her story was eye opening in that I was able to learn about her firsthand experience growing up in Communist China and her journey to America. It was interesting
to hear her reflect on the differences between Chinese and American culture. My family is also
from China and my parents also grew up during the Cultural Revolution, much like Xidan.
Although I knew about some of the Chinese traditions she described, some were new to me.
Xidan’s experience with Chinese culture is a much more traditional one than mine. But, there
were many elements of Xidan’s childhood that sounded similar to my parents’ stories of their
experiences growing up during the Cultural Revolution. When Xidan mentioned that coming to
America from China without knowing English is like “living in a prison” (pg. 53), I was
reminded of my mother’s experience. My mother had echoed the same sentiment and felt quite
isolated when first coming to America, as she did not know English.
I read chapter 4 Susan Phillips’ book and I felt a personal connection with this reading.
My mother is a Mexican immigrant from Jalisco, and the stories that Maria told remind me of the
stories that she tells me about her life growing up. My grandmother was also a field worker, but I
never knew enough Spanish to talk about her life with her before she passed. The first thing
about the readings that surprised me was the nonchalant way in which she describes the deaths of
her siblings. The way it is written makes it seem very monotone, which adds to the narrative of
how hard this woman’s life was. The stories about her father going to the US all the time to send
back money remind me of what my grandmother would do for my mother. She would go work in
the fields of central California down to the bay, and she would send back money so that my mom
and my tia could live. Her description of Mexican culture made me pretty sad because it doesn’t
allow for women (or most men for that matter) to chase their professional dreams. Professional
dreams aren’t valued as much as tradition and family though, and that’s something I wish was
more common in the states. When she talks about loving the feeling of independence but yelling
at her kids because they wanted to be more free than she was growing up, I snarled at the irony.

Overall, I think this chapter provides an excellent illustration of a fairly privileged immigrant
journey, the other stories that I’ve heard weren’t nearly as pleasant as the one she described.
Chapter 2: I think it is very interesting to learn about the perspectives of those who lived under
communism given the fact that many of us have grown up in America, a capitalistic country.
Individualism is a very American concept so it is thought-provoking to see how people are so
willing to sacrifice their lives for the collective good, especially when Xidan’s parents worked so
much that they didn’t get to see her or her brother very often. I didn’t know about the red/black/
gray categories that people were divided into and how the Cultural Revolution destroyed
families, as Xidan had to treat her parents badly because of their family background and how she
even considered killing him with a gun. One can’t help but feel that communism has taken their
children. I really admire how Xidan and her mom were so able to become amiable with everyone
around them and to adapt quickly. I especially respect Xidan for instilling confidence in her
patients and for refusing to do procedures because the client’s boyfriend told them to. The
language barrier that Xidan faced when she relocated to the U.S. resonated with me because my
dad told me a lot of stories of what life was like when he immigrated here. He frequently was
misunderstood at restaurants and everywhere else but over the years he has learned to adapt and
now those awkward experiences he had are funny to him. Overall, Xidan’s story was an
emotional rollercoaster and it was a great read.

