Rigoberto Garcia, Abel Lula, Alexander Clare, Amanda Pate, Ruyi Lu, Jodie Chen
Professor Esfandiari, Yuantong Li
Stats 112 A Window to Understanding Diversity
Week 2 Wednesday Discussion Reflection Questions
(Rigoberto Garcia) I read the chapter about Ana, a Salvadorean immigrant, and her
daughter Juanita who immigrated with her at a young age (11 years old). I had many reasons for
wanting to read this chapter: I’m Mexican-American so I love learning about the experiences of
other Latino/as, I have many Mexican immigrant stories so I wanted to branch out from the
Mexican immigrant chapter Ms.Philips offered, and there’s an unfortunate false narrative in the
Mexican community that we are to despise Salvadoreans. However, in reading about Ana and
Maria, there are many shared experiences between Salvadoran immigrants, Mexican immigrants,
and the generations of US citizens that follow them. One key aspect I want to focus on is the idea
of rasquachismo, a Chicano art form that draws from how many Mexicans in their daily lives
have to do what they can with what they have, resulting in art pieces that are displayed in
bathtubs, skulls made of sugar, and more. Ana talked about her time as a teacher in El Salvador,
where students were poor and could not afford all the supplies necessary to participate in class
like books, pencils, and paper. Yet, Ana says this lack of resources never dissuaded the students,
where some of them would share a single book or bring bugs from home to study insects,
reminding me of the rasquache lifestyle. While I have participated in rasquache activities
purposefully or unconsciously, I thought it was a Chicano invention, but Ana taught me that it is
an idea that unifies all Latinos.
(Jodie Chen) I read the chapter about a Vietnamese immigrant who escaped the
Communist regime with her family. She describes her family’s background, particularly

highlighting that her father was one of the few who was fortunate enough to receive an education
and learn how to read and write. Eventually, her father taught her how to read and write. How
her family saw education was that education could bring people more opportunities. They
believed that knowledge is power. One quote that stood out to me was “We teach our children if
they want a good life, they need to study, not to make money but to have knowledge so they can be good
people.” This quote resonates with me a lot since my mom is very against me having a part-time job since
she thinks it would take away from school. She believes that I will never make above minimum wage if I
“settle” for making this type of money now when I’m in college. I didn’t realize that this is a sentiment
shared by many immigrants; I used to get really annoyed whenever my mom brought this up but I can
understand where she’s coming from now.

(Amanda Pate) I read Chapter 1, which focused on Nara and Oktiabriana’s stories as
immigrant women from Armenia. It was clear in the reading that these women were incredibly
proud of their Armenian culture and heritage, falling into a category of immigrants that were
forced to flee rather than given the choice. Armenia has a tumultuous and unstable sociopolitical
landscape that worsened over the years, including the Armenian genocide from 1915-1922,
WWII, Stalin’s rule from 1924-1953 in which Armenia was part of the Soviet Republic, the war
with Azerbaijan from 1988-1994, and finally the fall of the Soviet Union bringing independence
that had been long fought for. Through all of this Nara’s family had held steadfast, prioritizing
education and making sure they survived. Just like for many, the breaking point did eventually
come though. Nara gave up her life as a teacher of Russian Literature and Language to follow
her husband to the United States and her mother Oktiabriana followed soon after, deeply
entrenched in a mother’s love and unwillingness to be separated. In this way, Oktiabriana chose
her family over her homeland, a painful decision that still hurts her as she misses Armenia and
what they had. She knows though, Armenia is not how they remember. Two quotes stood out to

me through the reading, “our strength is in our knowledge” and “the Armenian genocide caused
a huge pain. This pain comes from the milk of our mothers. This is part of our existence.”

(Ruyi Lu) The chapter I read recounted the story of the Vietnamese immigrant who fled
the communist regime along with her family. She was lucky in a sense that she was able to get
educated, which was relatively uncommon as for when she was born and where she lived. I have
relatives around Nguyen's age and they were never able to continue on with their education after
elementary school. Together with the mutual support from their family, this is probably what lit
their life when surrounded by darkness and despair. Besides her education experiences, I was
more stunned by how she wandered from place to place and endured so many hardships. There
was a quote that especially stood out to me, which said "other than death, we couldn't get any
lower. we had to take the chance". I couldn't describe how much desperation she lived through. It
seemed as if she was forced to make such a decision of leaving her land and everything she grew
up with, and I can't even imagine how courageous she was.

(Alexander Clare) I read about the Mexican immigrants Maria and Michelle. I felt like
their cultural identity was complex and important to them as human beings. Both women
emphasized that they identify with Mexican culture, but their status as immigrants dictates that
there is an American side to them as well. Michelle especially, since she was born in America,
has a dual identity that makes her unique. I felt that both women also emphasized the importance
of family in their lives, which is something I think derives from their Mexican heritage. Given
this, however, I was very interested in the section in which Maria remarried a Polish man. Maria
said that she wouldn’t expect to have married a man who isn’t Mexican, which is what I

would’ve expected. I think this is a good illustration of the complex cultural identity of these
women, as they culturally Mexican, but have experienced the melting pot that is America.

(Abel Lula) I read about the Mexican immigrants Maria and her daughter Michelle.
Maria wanted to pursue her education but it was very difficult for her because of her cultural
values and her family not being rich. She said she wishes she convinced her parents to pursue
teaching although her culture heavily relies on family and everything your parents say is right.
Another thing I noticed is how much Maria and Michelle were moving from Mexico to the US
due to the family needing to work in the US for money. This caused Michelle to feel like she was
losing her identity and that she was a part of two different cultures. Eventually, Maria ended up
choosing to permanently live in the US, which upset Michelle as she felt she had to start over
again. As a kid, I can’t imagine having to constantly move from place to place and trying to fit in
everywhere you go. I understand both of their perspectives and how difficult of a decision it is to
immigrate to a new country.

(Whole Group) As a group, we didn’t necessarily have a change in behavior, but rather a
better awareness of the immigrant groups we read about. We all noticed that the women in the
chapters put an emphasis on the value of education. For these immigrant women from Vietnam,
Armenia, and El Salvador, literacy brings opportunity, knowledge is power, and studying makes
good people. Each story also presents a relationship to America, whether through politics in
Armenia, colonialism in Vietnam, or differences in education, as Ana thought Americans do not
appreciate the resources they have to support their education. Overall, we found that immigration
education is valued based on how America sees their education, where career women in these

foreign countries did not have transferable documents that equated to an “American education”
that is perceived as better and not given the same respect.

Survey about NLP

Rigoberto
Garcia

Abel Lula

Alexander
Clare

Amanda
Pate

Ruyi Lu

Jodie Chen

1. Have
you ever
use NLP?
Yes/no

No

No

No

No

Yes

no

2. If yes
what
software?

N/A

N/A

None

N/A

Python

n/a

3. Have
you used it
in any
project?

I have
never used
NLP

No

No

Technicall
y yes, for
DataFest
but it was
my
teammate
who used
it.

Yes

n/a

4. Did you
learn about
it in a class
or did you
teach
yourself?

I haven’t
Neither
been
taught
anything in
NLP

Neither

I’ve taught
myself a
little bit.

half-half

n/a

5. If you
had to use
NLP on a

1

1

1

3

0

1

project,
how would
you rate
your
skills?

