Susan Phillips Reflection
Kailyn Nguyen (606036735), Junseong Hwang(505550240), Kevin Li (805733229), Daphne
Hidley (105502680), Aidan Ohlson
Kailyn Nguyen
Susan Phillips was a very enthusiastic and engaging speaker. Her talk felt more like a
discussion as she encouraged everyone to speak their own opinions and thoughts on her book.
She sparked a lot of conversation about what it means to be an American, which garnered mixed
opinions from the class. She asked if anyone related to the womens’ experiences in her book, to
which a lot of us did. I was able to speak out during class about how Thuynga’s story really
resonated with myself and my family. The hardships that she went through reminded me a lot of
what my mother told me she and her family went through to immigrate from Vietnam to
America.
My mother always told me stories of her life back in Vietnam, and how her family was
very wealthy and owned lots of land and had many maids. My father also had a wealthy life,
where his parents valued education and hired English tutors for himself and all his siblings. After
the North took over, my parents both had no choice but to immigrate to America. My mother and
her family came on a sponsorship by a family in America. When they arrived, life was very
different. They worked odd jobs to make ends meet. My uncle told me my grandmother worked
hours on a farm picking apricots, just so she could afford a blanket for her children to sleep with
at night.
This reminded me of Xidan’s story, where she had a very successful life in China but
after immigrating to the United States she had almost nothing. It took her a couple years to be
able to work, and even after getting jobs she still did not make enough to fully support herself.
Susan Phillips’ talk really opened my eyes to the stories of immigration, and how my family also
went through many struggles just like the others in her book.
Junseong Hwang (505550240)
Susan Philips delivered a talk that was both enlightening and captivating. She engaged us
with compelling discussions derived from her book, facilitating a space for open conversation
and individual contemplation. Philips encouraged attendees to express their personal insights and
experiences, making the session more interactive and intimate. Her exploration of "what it means
to be an American" invoked a multitude of viewpoints, making it a stimulating part of the
discussion. I felt a personal affinity with the conversation, especially with the women’s stories
shared. The tales of adversity, adjustment, and resilience mirrored my own or my family's
experiences and journey. Philips’s knack for creating an environment where personal narratives

could be intertwined with the essence of her book made the session not just educational, but also
profoundly reflective and connective.

Kevin Li (805733229)
I really enjoyed the talk given by Susan Philips. It was very effective to first play an
introduction video before the talk because it allowed us to become more familiar with the people
she interviewed and wrote about in her book. Throughout her talk, she was enthusiastic about the
work she has done around her book as well as in general. The fact that she still remembers many
details of her interaction with the people she interviewed demonstrates how sincerely and deeply
she cares about them. After hearing the talk, I have gained a better understanding of the struggles
and challenges experienced by immigrants in the United States, which made me respect the
immigrants even more considering the courage and persistence it takes to overcome all the
difficulties. Another important takeaway from the talk was that people should always pay respect
to the cultural background of the immigrants because most immigrants are proud of their own
culture. Near the end of the talk, we were asked the question of what it means to be American,
which is a question that can have many correct answers because the cultures in the United States
are diverse, so that each person may view his American identity from a different perspective. As
a foreigner, it's hard for me to tell what it means to be American, but my understanding of the
American identity would center around freedom, such as the freedom of speech and the freedom
of being your true self.

Daphne Hidley (105502680)
Susan Philip’s talk that she gave in class on Wednesday was very interesting and
engaging for me to listen to. I never had any personal experience in my family of immigration,
so the topic always felt very distant and foreign to me. Reading Ms. Philip’s book, watching her
short film, and listening to her talk gave me a whole new perspective on the struggles that
immigrants go through whether it's from before they came and once they arrived. Because of the
stories she told of the women in her book, I was able to relate my own experiences to theirs to
get a better understanding of how they must have felt. This summer, I studied abroad in Paris for
two months, so I know the feeling of feeling out of place in a new country, feeling like you can’t
get anything right with the culture, and feeling lost in the language. I had even studied french for
four years at that point, so I can’t imagine how scary it must feel to go somewhere completely
unlike your home country without being able to communicate. This helped me empathize with
the immigrant experience in America. Ms. Philip’s talk also made me think about my greatgrandmother who immigrated to America from the Czech Republic and died when I was young. I

wonder what she must have been through to come here and how hard it must have been for her to
adapt. I wish I could ask her these questions. The one story I remember about her is that when
she came to America, she was pregnant with my grandfather and she didn’t speak a word of
english. When she was giving birth in an American hospital, she was so scared and she was
trying to communicate with the nurses but she could only speak Czech. Then, her doctor came in
and miraculously, he knew how to speak Czech too and could make her feel heard in such an
important moment. I wish that all immigrant women would be treated with the same kindness
today.
Aidan Ohlson
I enjoyed listening to Susan Philips talk about female immigrants to America. Hearing
her speak about all of their stories was very interesting because each woman had very different
circumstances that made them come to America. I could sympathize with them because of all of
the bad situations that they went through. I also enjoyed the question she brought up about what
American culture is. I thought it was interesting to hear everyone’s opinion on what that means
to them. Some people thought that it was the sense of opportunity that the country brings or the
freedom for individualism. I wonder what those women would think American culture is from an
outside view.

