Katelyn Nguyen, Ethan Vuong, Natalie Nguyen, Tian Qiu, Emily Zhang (Group 3)
23F-STATS-112-LEC-1
Profesor Matash Esfandiari
14 October 2023
Reflection about Susan Philips’s Talk
Individual :
Natalie Nguyen:
Mrs. Susan Phillips book and film is bound to have a great impact on who ever reads it. It
made us realize that when many people migrate over, they are giving up a tremendous amount.
Many of the women were very proud of their careers in their motherland (such as teacher and
doctors) but had to give that up when they migrated to America. They faced difficulties with the
language and felt inferior at time, even though in their mother tongue they were experts in their
fields. While many of them had to migrate over to find better lives for themselves and their
families, many miss the lives that they use to have previously.
Katelyn Nguyen:
Through Susan Philips’s talk, I was able to view a new perspective on life in general.
Susan’s interviews shined light on the various hardships these women had to endure to maintain
a normal life. It allowed me to realize the many aspects of life that I take for granted. Another
aspect of her speech allowed me to realize the many sacrifices my parents had to go through in
order to move to the United States. Susan had posed the question “what does being an American
mean to me”. I couldn’t help but think about my parents and all their sacrifices that were made to
give me a better life opportunity whether that was pertaining to school, work, and even related to
the government. The first word that I think of when I think of being an American would be
opportunity. Both of my parents are Vietnamese-Americans and at such a young age they were
forced to leave their family, friends, and life behind. Actually being able to hear from these
women and their experience only reminded me of the many stories my parents used to tell me
about their own experience. In particular, I had read the chapter pertaining to Vietnamese
immigrants. Her life experiences emphasized how she was forced to deal with the many
stereotypes that Vietnamese immigrants had to withhold. This was seen through gender roles,

education, and even through patriotism for one’s country. It seemed as if life during this time had
members living according to set rules. However, after Susan’s talk I was able to realize that
everyone has their own struggles and how common war is.
Tian Qiu:
At Ms.Susan Philip’s talk, I was able to get more understanding in other chapter
including chapter 2. She points out more dimensions such as political factions and
social-economical and cultural differences. These are critical and continuous factors that even
impact immigration still today. The Q&A section had chance to access other chapter’s content
that is undiscovered. During her section about describing the Chinese women, her suffering in
career and social path reminds me of those moment of hard time in China. Generation both suffer
and benefits with all dimensions of changes, and small changes in society would be such a
unavoidable huge impact to any individuals. It is almost impossible to believe how any
individual make brave decision in facing a complete new environment and survive to become
same as back then or even better.
Ethan Vuong:
The evening following Ms. Phillips' speech, I took time to really think about the
sacrifices that immigrants make when they choose to migrate to a new country. It was really
eye-opening to learn that many of these immigrants completely changed their careers upon
arrival in the United States. Come to think of it, it makes complete sense why they had to do that.
If I were a doctor in Vietnam and all I knew how to speak was Vietnamese, I could only imagine
how difficult it would be try and find a job practicing medicine in the U.S., where English is the
dominating language. The stories of the women in Ms. Phillips’ book sound a lot like the story of
my mom, who is a Vietnamese immigrant. Unfortunately, my mom is really busy right now with
travel, so I do not have the opportunity to interview her right now; I definitely will when she gets
back from her trip. Like many Vietnamese immigrants, she really wanted to keep family
together. Considering that the majority of my mom’s side of the family still live in California
goes to show that this is a common value shared among her family and families like the Ana’s
from chapter 2 of the book. Ms. Phillips asked me in class what my thoughts were on what it
means to be American. To be honest, I gave an answer that didn’t really reflect how I actually

felt because I was kind of put on the spot and didn’t know what to say. To answer that question
now, I think that being American means to have the freedom to form your own perception of
what it means to be American. In countries like North Korea, the concept of “what it means to be
North Korean” is highly regulated by the government. To be North Korean is to be loyal to the
Kim dynasty and conform to their societal standards. In America, we can practice individuality.
America places a strong emphasis on individual freedoms such as the freedom of religion,
assembly, speech and press. This culture allows us to decide whether or not being American
means to be patriotic or whatever else one can come up with.
Emily Zhang:
I thought Susan Philips’ lecture was eye-opening. We hear time and time again about
immigration to the United States and the difficulties that come with it, but we forget that each
and every immigrant has a different and unique story that they bring here. We forget that these
are real people with real lives, and not just some statistic we read online. I had read the chapter
where Ana and Juanita immigrate to the United States to escape the war in El Salvador, but
seeing the video played at the beginning of the lecture really gave a voice and appearance to the
words I was reading. The video also showed the lives and professions the women in the book had
before coming to the United States, and I could really see how much pride they had in their
work. Some were doctors, and some were teachers like Ana. I started thinking about it during the
lecture, but I could never imagine how hard it must be to give up everything you know. Further
into the lecture, I thought it was especially interesting when Mrs. Philips called on us, the
students, to engage and speak about our thoughts and opinions. She wanted to hear the story of
our parents immigrating to the United States. My parents both immigrated from China to New
York in the 1990s, so it made me reflect on everything that had sacrificed to come here. This was
very similar to Ana’s story of immigration for her family. One of my favorite moments from her
speaking during the lecture was when she asked us what being American meant to us.
Immediately, immigration and freedom of speech came to mind. Since we all come from
different backgrounds, we are able to exchange a diversity of thought even if we don’t agree with
each other. We have the freedom to do that. In the future, I will try to talk with my parents more
about their experiences immigrating to the United States, to learn and listen to their stories.

