Group 8:
Maneh Begi, Aidan Gresham, Edward Halim, Min Jung Kim, Brittney Trinh, Yaquan Wang
Aidan Gresham: Reading the chapter about Thuynga, the Vietnamese refugee, and listening to
Ms. Philips has changed my attitude on life and safety throughout the world. In terms of
changing my behavior, it has made me appreciate having lived in the United States for my entire
life, where I have never had to struggle due to poverty, war, or violence. I learned a lot from Ms.
Philips’s talk, as I was able to learn more about each of the women who were interviewed and
their cultural backgrounds. It was interesting to hear the women’s perspective on American
culture and their experiences as immigrants trying to assimilate to American life and culture. For
example, the language barrier was difficult as many of them had to learn English for the first
time after arriving in the United States. Many of them had to give up their careers back in their
home country. Reading Ms. Philips’s book and listening to her speak has allowed me to learn
more about the immigrant experience in the United States.
Brittney Trinh: Listening to Philips’s talk reminded me that I need to be mindful about peoples’
backgrounds and upbringings. The United States is a diverse country and hearing the stories
that Philips highlighted reminds me of my own family and how they immigrated here from
another country. I thought it was interesting how similar some of the womens’ perspectives on
life were to my parents, and yet they were still different from one another. Although no two
immigration experiences are the same, there is some comfort in knowing that we are not alien to
the country, but rather an integral part of the United States and its rich history. I also found it
thoughtful that Philips named her book In the Heart of Another–this humanizes our stories and
helps immigrants feel less alone in their journeys.
Yaquan Wang: Susan Philip’s talk inspired me and gave me a deeper understanding of
immigration. Besides reading chapter 5 of her book, In the Heart of Another, the talk made me
realize what these immigrant women had given up in order to live in the United States. We could
see how proud these women were when they mentioned their professions back in their own
country: some of them were teachers, one of them was a programmer, another was a doctor,
and so on. We can see many of them couldn’t get to do what they love. In my opinion, Xidan
was successful back in China. However, when she came to the US, she had no capital, no
experience, and no access to well-paid jobs so she had to do massage for a living. She had to
give up a lot. What impressed me the most about Susan Philip’s talk was the two questions that
she asked us: What does it mean to be in America(the United States)? What is American
culture? In terms of the guest culture and host culture, it is enlightening for me to think about
how the United States can be a melting pot of different cultures if many different cultures have
such separate values, beliefs, and norms.

Edward Halim: Upon reflecting on Susan Phlips’ book and her stories, it becomes evident just
how fortunate we are. We still enjoy the privilege of having a roof over our heads and warm
meals on our tables. In these stories, it’s clear that many individuals endured the hardships of
war, slavery, and the heart-wrenching act of leaving behind everything they held dear in pursuit
of what we often take for granted today. These courageous souls sacrificed their pasts in hopes
of a brighter future in the United States. Some were driven by the Cold War, which posed a
constant threat to their lives and the safety of their loved ones. Others willingly left behind their

successful careers and wealth to embrace a more modest life in the US. They had it all, but
unforeseeable circumstances compelled them to pack their bags and embark on an uncertain
journey. From these stories, I learned to recognize and appreciate the privileges I have in my life
that often take for granted. Understanding the struggles faced by those who have overcome
immense challenges to secure a better future in a new land, I aim to support and welcome
newcomers with open arms, fostering an environment of inclusion and understanding. These
stories have truly opened my eyes to the importance of kindness, empathy, and solidarity in
shaping a diverse society since each individual has their own stories and backgrounds to share.
Min Jung Kim: After reading chapter one and listening to Ms. Philips’ talk, I reflected on my life
and family. Reading how it was for the Armenians during the Genocide was shocking and made
me think about my family. My family is from Korea. I still hear stories from my grandparents
about how they had to flee from home to survive the Korean War. My family is fortunate, as we
did not experience the heartbreak of being divided between North and South Korea. However,
my family did go through the horrors of the Korean War. Furthermore, I also had a time of selfreflection after Ms. Philips’ talk. The video that Ms. Philips showed us during the lecture gave
me a deeper understanding of each woman’s journey. On top of the video, Ms. Philips
mentioned during her talk that many women went through a hard time not only because of the
language barriers but also because they had to give up their careers and life in their home
country. Reading, listening, and viewing all these stories, it was enlightening to see each
woman’s unique challenges as immigrants adjusting to a new country. I also realized how
privileged I am as an international student at UCLA since some give up their everything to live in
the United States. The stories of these women have made me realize that each journey is filled
with its own unique challenges, and I should not take my privileges for granted.
Maneh Begi: Reading Chapter 1 of Susan Philips’ book was heartbreaking for me as an
Armenian. Armenians have suffered through over a century of continuous massacre and ethnic
cleansing perpetrated by both Turkey and Azerbaijan. It was interesting to read about Nara’s
personal experience and family background in comparison to mine. During the short film, Nara’s
mother, speaking in Armenian, explained how she misses and longs for her homeland but does
not miss the government. However, that is what the written captions and translation stated.
None of the other students in the room were able to understand the Armenian words she spoke,
only I was. In reality, she said the government is broken, and the state of the inhabitants of
Armenia is devastating and chaotic. While the class giggled reading, “I do not miss the
government,” I heard her real words and resonated with the pain of my people. After hearing
Ms. Philips speak about her book and watching the short introduction film, I became more
aware of the privilege we hold living in the United States. Although my people and family
underwent genocide and intense maltreatment, I’ve never experienced such brutality firsthand. I
am able to feel their pain and grief but am not able to entirely understand the extent of the
tragedies. Hearing the stories of not only my culture, but other cultures as well, reminded me
how lucky I am to live the life I do. Immigrants travel to the United States for freedom and
opportunity, yet we’ve never felt the same fear and worry of leaving our homes and have never
experienced struggles with the language barrier. The book sheds light on the hardships
immigrants go through from the perspective of various women from various cultures. In addition,
discussing my experiences as a great-granddaughter of an Armenian Genocide survivor with
Ms. Philips herself was cathartic in a way. Being able to educate my classmates about the
horrors of the Genocide and the ongoing war in Karabakh filled me with a bittersweet feeling of

a combination of passion and fury. Overall, this experience made me feel extremely grateful and
gave me further insight into immigration.

