‭ hole group: Did reading the chapter and listening to Ms. Philips change your‬
W
‭attitude or future behavior in any way?‬
‭ egina:‬
R
‭Reading about the stories of immigrants who came to the US for various reasons—in‬
‭search of better opportunities, escaping conflicts, etc—and listening to Ms. Phillips‬
‭reinforce the idea that there is no one way to be American. These people talk about‬
‭assimilating into the culture, how the cultural values they were raised and identified with‬
‭became influenced with what they perceive to be American values. Therefore, in terms‬
‭of attitude or future behavior, there is a need to understand that American people are‬
‭the result of multitude of experiences and different cultural values.‬
‭ hyoung:‬
A
‭Reading the chapter led me to raise empathy and have a deeper understanding of the‬
‭experiences of immigrants. I learned more about different cultures and the importance‬
‭of preserving identity. In the book, the women tell their stories: why they immigrated,‬
‭how they felt as immigrants, and what hardships they struggled with. They left behind‬
‭their languages, cultures, jobs, and even families. It may not result in immediate and‬
‭tangible changes in behavior, but it contributes to a broader understanding of the‬
‭immigrant experience and diverse cultures. I realized there should be power in the‬
‭people who tell other people their own stories.‬
‭ esen Ma:‬
Z
‭Reading about these chapters made me realize that people gave up many valuable and‬
‭important friends, family and occupations, in order to come to the U.S. for a better life.‬
‭They often struggled a lot at first, in a brand new nation. But they were all very tough‬
‭and resilient, and finally they were able to overcome the language barrier, cultural‬
‭shock, and homesickness, and built a life for themselves. I really admire their courage‬
‭and spirit for coming into a new world and adapting to the environment. I think it is very‬
‭difficult to accomplish such things. During Mr.Phillips' talk, she mentioned two factors‬
‭that were most difficult for these women, when they immigrated to the United States.‬
‭The first one is language and the second one is culture. In the books, most of them‬
‭struggled with these two factors as well. Some of these women chose to do the‬
‭interviews in their native languages and some of them chose to use English. I think‬
‭using their native language shows how much they miss their country and culture. During‬
‭the talk, I think Mr.Philips raised two questions; What does it mean to be American?‬
‭What is American culture? Being an international student, I don’t think I am the most‬
‭qualified person to answer these two questions, but I think diversity and freedom are the‬
‭two factors that make the American culture and people in this nation so unique‬
‭compared to many other cultures. Diversity brings so many different talents, power,‬

k‭ nowledge, and culture into this one place. And the freedom here is the container that‬
‭can protect and hold these differences. It was an inspiring talk, and I learned many new‬
‭things and perspectives.‬

‭ evin‬‭:‬
K
‭The stories of the immigrants made me reflect on the different motives and backgrounds‬
‭of moving to the U.S. For instance, the majority of the people in my situation as an‬
‭international student do not face life-threatening dangers, or another desperate reason‬
‭to settle down in America. This helped me rethink about the gravity of moving to another‬
‭country, and what it means to leave your home. It also helped me realize that my global‬
‭experiences would have been very different if it weren’t for the technological advances‬
‭that allowed me to remain connected to my roots.‬
‭ ldo:‬
A
‭Reading through the chapters on immigrant experiences, I was deeply moved by the‬
‭sacrifices many made – leaving behind cherished friends, beloved family members, and‬
‭established careers – all in pursuit of a better life in the U.S. Their initial days were often‬
‭marred by struggles, navigating a world so unfamiliar and at times, unforgiving. Yet,‬
‭their tenacity and resilience shone through, as they battled linguistic challenges, cultural‬
‭differences, and the gnawing pangs of homesickness to carve out a niche for‬
‭themselves in a new land. Their sheer courage, their ability to step into the unknown‬
‭and adapt, is truly commendable. Such feats, I believe, are monumental. During Susan‬
‭Phillips' discourse, she emphasized two primary challenges faced by these women‬
‭upon their immigration to the U.S.: the language and the cultural divide. This resonated‬
‭with the book's narratives, with some women opting to share their stories in their native‬
‭tongues, perhaps a poignant reminder of the homes they left behind. Ms. Phillips posed‬
‭two significant questions during her talk: "What does it mean to be American?" and‬
‭"What defines American culture?" As an international student in the U.S., I find myself‬
‭here driven by the quest for opportunities and experiences, especially in the data‬
‭science industry, that I felt were limited in my home country. While I might not have a‬
‭deep-rooted understanding of the American identity, I perceive its uniqueness to lie in its‬
‭diversity and the freedom it offers. This nation's strength emerges from its‬
‭amalgamation of varied talents, knowledge, cultures, and backgrounds, all thriving‬
‭under the protective embrace of the freedoms championed here. Ms. Phillips' insights‬
‭were undoubtedly enlightening, broadening my horizons on the immigrant narrative.‬

